[RF Docs] Active Record Query Interface (#17)
Ridhwana/rails: guides/source/active_record_querying.md

Reviewer: Also here `Model.find` is a bit outdated. Not sure if using `ActiveRecord::Relation` makes sense:
```suggestion
SQL uses the `HAVING` clause to specify conditions on the `GROUP BY` fields. You can add the `HAVING` clause to the SQL fired by the `ActiveRecord::Relation` by adding the [`having`][] method to the relation.
```

Also starting out with the use case for `having`, makes things more clear I think:

```suggestion
To add conditions to the results returned by `group` use the [`having`][] method.
`having` adds the `HAVING` clause to specify conditions on the `GROUP BY` fields.
```

Reviewer: Maybe add some more context here?
```suggestion
You can also override conditions using the [`only`][] method.  In the following example only the `:order` and `:where` scopes are applied, the `:limit` scope is removed:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SQL that would be executed sets the order to be `DESC`:
```

Reviewer: Maybe also mention what changes here?
```suggestion
The SQL that would be executed groups by the regrouped columns:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a regular `group` is used instead of the `regroup` clause, the group clauses are combined together:
```

Reviewer: I think this example makes more sense if we call the method before defining it?

```suggestion
class Book
  # Returns reviews if there are at least 5,
  # else consider this as non-reviewed book
  def highlighted_reviews
    if reviews.count >= 5
      reviews
    else
      Review.none # Does not meet minimum threshold yet
    end
  end
end

# The highlighted_reviews method is expected to always return a Relation.
Book.first.highlighted_reviews.average(:rating)
# => Returns average rating of a book even when there are less than 5 reviews.
```

Reviewer: Maybe show the `lock_version`s here for clarity?
```suggestion
c1.lock_version # => 1
c2.lock_version # => 1

c1.first_name = "Sandra"
c1.save
c1.lock_version # => 2
```

Reviewer: Should we add an explanation of `joining` for beginners?

```suggestion

By joining tables we can retrieve records from multiple tables in a single database query, for examples the books with their authors.

```

Reviewer: Maybe we can split these examples over multiple lines for readability? I'm seeing similar  splits elsewhere in thise guide.
```suggestion
SELECT authors.* FROM authors
  INNER JOIN books ON books.author_id = authors.id AND books.out_of_print = FALSE
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT DISTINCT customers.*, COUNT(reviews.*) AS reviews_count FROM customers
  LEFT OUTER JOIN reviews ON reviews.customer_id = customers.id
  GROUP BY customers.id
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT customers.* FROM customers
  INNER JOIN reviews ON reviews.customer_id = customers.id
  WHERE reviews.id IS NOT NULL
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SELECT customers.* FROM customers
  LEFT OUTER JOIN reviews ON reviews.customer_id = customers.id
  WHERE reviews.id IS NULL
```

Reviewer: We should probably also mention [reusing existing joins](https://github.com/rails/rails/pull/51078). Something like:

````suggestion

If a join is already defined `associated` will use that join instead:

```ruby
# associated will use LEFT JOIN for this query instead of using JOIN
Post.left_joins(:author).where.associated(:author)
```

````

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Eager loading is the mechanism for loading the associated records of the objects returned by `ActiveRecord::Relation` using as few queries as possible.
```

Reviewer: If `includes` does two separate queries, it's not the minimum possible (which would be 1 with a join). Instead it optimizes for the most performant queries.
So I think this should be changed to something like:
```suggestion
With `includes`, Active Record tries to load the specified associations using the most performant queries.
```

Reviewer: This was somewhat confusing to me as I kept looking for an Array.
Maybe something like:

```suggestion
Be aware that, when scope arguments are given as an `Array`, `default_scope` 
cannot convert the arguments to a `Hash` for default attribute assignment. E.g.:
```

Reviewer: This section has overlap with the new "Chaining Scopes". Maybe they should be "merged"?

Reviewer: I think `unscoped` is doesn't require scopes. 
One of the example shows its usage without a scope:
```ruby
Book.where(out_of_print: true).unscoped.all
```
So I think this section should go after "Overriding Conditions > `unscope`" maybe?

Reviewer: Maybe we can clarify which scopes are created?
```suggestion
[scopes](#scopes) are created automatically for each enum value and can be used to find all objects with or without a particular value for `status`:
```

Reviewer: This part is pretty wordy and the examples later on will clarify things.
So I think we can simplify things and keep it short:
```suggestion
Declaring an enum will create scopes, predicate methods and setter methods for all possible values of an enum.
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Predicate methods are created automatically for each enum value that query whether the model has that value for the `status` enum:
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instance methods are created automatically for each enum value that will first update the value of `status` to the named value
```

Reviewer: Maybe split this up for readability?
```suggestion
=> [{"first_name"=>"Rafael", "created_at"=>"2012-11-10 23:23:45.281189"},
    {"first_name"=>"Eileen", "created_at"=>"2013-12-09 11:22:35.221282"}]
```

Reviewer: It would be nice if we showed the result her as well:
```suggestion
Customer.where(id: 1).pick(:id)
# => 1
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you are using a different `primary_key` this will be used instead:

```

Reviewer: `find_by_sql` itself doesn't have a heading so it doesn't show up in the sidebar.

Reviewer: Similar to other sections, I think it would be nice if `exists?`, `any?` and `many?` have their own heading, so they are visible in the sidebar.

Reviewer: I think it's probably important to mention these methods don't instantiate Active Record objects:

```suggestion
If you simply want to check for the existence of an object without instantiating the object there's a method called [`exists?`][].
```

Reviewer: I think this section could use an introduction.
Maybe something like:
```suggestion

Active Record supports different methods to do calculations in the database. With these methods you don't need to instantiate ActiveRecord models to make calculations.
Calculating results in the database will generally be more performant.

```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
irb> Customer.count
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM customers
# => 3753
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
irb> Customer.where(first_name: 'Ryan').count
SELECT COUNT(*) FROM customers WHERE (first_name = 'Ryan')
# => 17
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Order.minimum("subtotal")
# => 1.23
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Order.maximum("subtotal")
# => 4567.89
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Order.average("subtotal")
# => 3.14159265
```

> 

Author: The DETAIL section in the PR description gives a good idea of what has changed, but also what will be tackled as follow ups.

Reviewer 2: I can't comment on the intro, so leaving this here. The first sentence of the guide reads a little weird to me the "used to using raw SQL". How about something like:
If you're used to writing raw SQL to query the database, you'll find that Active Record provides a cleaner and more expressive ways to perform the same operations.

> 

Reviewer 3: What do you think about the formatting of:

* How to run EXPLAIN on relations.

?

Should we change this to:

* How to run `.explain` on relations.

?

The caps seem a bit incongruous but happy to be corrected if you think they're OK!

Reviewer 3: (And if you agree, maybe also in the later `explain` section itself?)

> 

Reviewer 3: Also, how about: 

```suggestion
If you're used to using raw SQL to find database records, then you will generally find that there are simpler ways to carry out the same operations in Rails. Active Record insulates you from the need to use SQL in most cases.
```

I'm not sure about us adding a value judgement with 'better'...?

Author: I've updated to use a variation of Bhumi's version which I think reads nicely "If you’re used to working directly with raw SQL, Active Record offers a more readable and expressive way to perform the same operations." 

To your point, "more readable and expressive" is less judgemntal and more fact based.

> Active Record will perform queries on the database for you and is compatible with most database systems, including MySQL, MariaDB, PostgreSQL, and SQLite. Regardless of which database system you're using, the Active Record method format will always be the same.

Author: NOTE: Running EXPLAIN and eager loading can probably be moved to a Performance Guide as suggested. I did not attempt to do this as part of this task, but I will create a separate Basecamp task so that we can determine what else we'd move into this guide and how to give a full view of performance. Thereafter, we can extract it.

Reviewer 3: Ah sorry - you'll probably pick up any formatting changes on EXPLAIN when you move the section if necessary - feel free to ignore for now if you need, then!

> NOTE: Basic knowledge of relational database management systems (RDBMS) and structured query language (SQL) is helpful for getting the most out of this guide. Please refer to [this SQL tutorial][sqlcourse] (or [this RDBMS tutorial][rdbmsinfo]) or study them by other means if you would like to learn more.

Reviewer 3: Need the backticks in here to make the reference labels work I think: 

```suggestion
NOTE: Basic knowledge of relational database management systems (RDBMS) and structured query language (SQL) is helpful for getting the most out of this guide. Please refer to [this SQL tutorial][`sqlcourse`] (or [this RDBMS tutorial][`rdbmsinfo`]) or study them by other means if you would like to learn more.
```

> SELECT * FROM customers WHERE (customers.first_name = 'Lifo') LIMIT 1

Reviewer 3: Taking the #s out of the above example on line 199 will make the formatting nicer on screen!
```
=> [<Customer id: 1, first_name: "Lifo">, <Customer id: 10, first_name: "Ryan">]
```

Reviewer 3: Same for line 229, 259, 298, 376, 494 and a few other examples...

Author: @OughtPuts I'm not sure about this, the #'s  are reflective of the actual responses from the rails console - thats how the appear in the output. Also, I checked, and in other files, we maintains the #'s.

```

> Note that there is no `ORDER BY` in the above SQL.  If your `find_by` conditions can match multiple records, you should [apply an order](#ordering-records) to guarantee a deterministic result.

Reviewer 2: A look back comment (since I can't comment on lines that are not modified):
194: the return will be --> the return value will be
210 --> good place to link this https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_composite_primary_keys.html

Active Record provides a finder method. If you have a field called `first_name` on your `Customer` model for example,
you get the instance method `find_by_first_name` for free from Active Record.
If you also have a `locked` field on the `Customer` model, you also get `find_by_locked` method.

You can specify an exclamation point (`!`) on the end of the dynamic finders
to get them to raise an `ActiveRecord::RecordNotFound` error if they do not return any records, like `Customer.find_by_first_name!("Ryan")`

If you want to find both by `first_name` and `orders_count`, you can chain these finders together by simply typing "`and`" between the fields.
For example, `Customer.find_by_first_name_and_orders_count("Ryan", 5)`.

### Retrieving Multiple Objects

Active Record provides several methods for retrieving multiple objects from the database. The most basic method is [`all`][], which returns all records for the model.

```irb
irb> customers = Customer.all
=> [#<Customer id: 1, first_name: "Lifo">, #<Customer id: 2, first_name: "Fifo">, ...]
```

The SQL equivalent of the above is:

```sql
SELECT * FROM customers
```

> The `all` method returns an `ActiveRecord::Relation` object, which allows you to chain additional query methods. For example, you can combine it with [`where`][] to filter records:

Reviewer 2: Noticed that the below example doesn't actually chain anything with `all`, does this paragraph need to be updated?

```irb
irb> customers = Customer.where(active: true)
=> [#<Customer id: 1, first_name: "Lifo", active: true>, #<Customer id: 3, first_name: "Joe", active: true>]
```

The SQL equivalent of the above is:

```sql
SELECT * FROM customers WHERE (customers.active = true)
```

You can also use other methods like [`order`][], [`limit`][], and [`group`][] to further refine your queries. These methods are covered in detail in the [Filtering Records](#filtering-records), [Ordering Records](#ordering-records), [Limit and Offset](#limit-and-offset), and [Grouping Records](#grouping-records) sections.

> For large datasets, consider using the batch processing methods described in the next section to avoid loading all records into memory at once.

Reviewer 2: This could be TIP?
```suggestion
TIP: For large datasets, consider using the batch processing methods described in the next section to avoid loading all records into memory at once.
```

[`all`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/Scoping/Named/ClassMethods.html#method-i-all
[`where`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/QueryMethods.html#method-i-where
[`order`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/QueryMethods.html#method-i-order
[`limit`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/QueryMethods.html#method-i-limit
[`group`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/QueryMethods.html#method-i-group

### Retrieving Multiple Objects in Batches

> We often need to iterate over a large set of records, as when we send a newsletter to a large set of customers, or when we export data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We often need to iterate over a large set of records, for example, when sending a newsletter to a large set of customers, or when exporting data.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Don't think I can comment directly on the line 557 (sorry) but I was thinking it's a bit clunky to have the example split up this sentence: 

`find_each` works on model classes, as seen above, and also on relations:
```ruby
Customer.where(weekly_subscriber: true).find_each do |customer|
  NewsMailer.weekly(customer).deliver_now
end
```
as long as they have no ordering, since the method needs to force an order
internally to iterate.

Could we do something like: 

`find_each` works on model classes, as seen above, and also on relations, as seen below, as long as they have no ordering, since the method needs to force an order internally to iterate.

<EXAMPLE>

Reviewer 3: Similar on 644!

> The `error_on_ignore` option overrides the application config to specify if an error should be raised when a specific order is present in the relation.

Reviewer 2: Looking back comment:
547: would it make sense to say where 1000 comes from and if that's configurable? I wasn't sure, so looked it up. It's the  option `batch_size: 1000`
565: small nit: reads like a fragment, maybe make it a complete sentence and combine it with the following paragraph?

Filtering Records
-----------------

The [`where`][] method allows you to specify conditions to limit the records returned, representing the `WHERE`-part of the SQL statement. Conditions can either be specified as a string, array, or hash.

### Pure String Conditions

> If you'd like to add conditions to your find, you could just specify them in there, just like `Book.where("title = 'Introduction to Algorithms'")`. This will find all books where the `title` field value is 'Introduction to Algorithms'.

Reviewer 2: "If you'd like to add conditions to your find, you could just specify them in there" is this right? or should it say "if you'd like to add conditions to your `where`?

Author: Updated to:

If you want to add conditions to your query, you can include them directly in the where clause.

For example:

```ruby
Book.where("title = 'Introduction to Algorithms'")
```

This will find all books where the `title` field value is 'Introduction to Algorithms'.

WARNING: Building your own conditions as pure strings can leave you vulnerable to SQL injection exploits. For example, `Book.where("title LIKE '%#{params[:title]}%'")` is not safe. See the next section for the preferred way to handle conditions using an array. For more background, see the [Ruby on Rails Security Guide on SQL injection](security.html#sql-injection).

### Array Conditions

> 

Reviewer 3: Do you think line 709 seems slightly incongruous in tone to how we normally write the guides? Maybe: 

If an object attribute is variable or dependent on an argument, the find could then take the form:

> because of argument safety. Putting the variable directly into the conditions string will pass the variable to the database **as-is**. This means that it will be an unescaped variable directly from a user who may have malicious intent. If you do this, you put your entire database at risk because once a user finds out they can exploit your database they can do just about anything to it. Never ever put your arguments directly inside the conditions string.

Reviewer 3: Again, I wonder if starting on a half-sentence after a code example is a bit jarring.

```suggestion
This is because putting the variable directly into the conditions string will pass the variable to the database **as-is**, which means that it will be an unescaped variable directly from a user who may have malicious intent. If you do this, you put your entire database at risk because once a user finds out they can exploit your database they can do just about anything to it. Never ever put your arguments directly inside the conditions string.
```

Author: Thanks! Updated to read better and to avoid that half sentence:

For argument safety, it's preferable to use this code:

```ruby
Book.where("title = ?", params[:title])
```

instead of this code:

```ruby
Book.where("title = #{params[:title]}")
```

Adding a variable directly into the conditions string sends it to the database **as-is**, without any escaping or protection. If that value comes from user input, it can introduce malicious SQL and put your entire database at risk. For that reason, you should avoid placing arguments directly inside the conditions string.

> This will generate SQL like this:

Reviewer 2: Look back comment:

748: "This makes for clearer readability if you have a large number of variable conditions." --> "This makes for a more readable query when you have a large number of variable conditions."

> 

Reviewer 2: 793: First time we mention it so might be helpful to the reader to link to this https://guides.rubyonrails.org/association_basics.html#polymorphic-associations

> Where `<attribute>` is the attribute you asked for. The `id` method will not raise the `ActiveRecord::MissingAttributeError`, so just be careful when working with associations because they need the `id` method to function properly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the above example, `<attribute>` would be the requested attribute. The `id` method will not raise the `ActiveRecord::MissingAttributeError`, so exercise caution when working with associations, which need the `id` method to function properly.
```

Limiting Records
----------------

> To apply `LIMIT` to the SQL fired by the `Model.find`, you can specify the `LIMIT` using [`limit`][] and [`offset`][] methods on the relation.

Reviewer: `Model.find` is a [remnant of older Rails](https://api.rubyonrails.org/v3.0/classes/ActiveRecord/FinderMethods.html#method-i-find) where `Model.find` was used for collections as well.
Maybe reword it more beginner friendly by avoiding SQL similar to "Ordering"?
```suggestion
To limit the number of records retrieved from the database you can use the [`limit`][] and [`offset`][] methods on the relation.
```
Or maybe just remove remove this paragraph as the next one already has a good explanation?

SELECT * FROM customers LIMIT 5 OFFSET 30
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Line 1022 - how about: 

This example will return a maximum of 5 customers, and as it specifies no offset first 5 in the table will be returned. The SQL it executes looks like this:

Reviewer 3: Also we could combine lines 1028 and 1034 to make it a nicer to read. How about:

Adding `offset` to this example will return a maximum of 5 customers instead, beginning with the 31st. 

<example>

The SQL looks like:

> If you would like to only grab a single record per unique value in a certain field, you can use [`distinct`][]:

Reviewer 3: Nit - return rather than grab?

```suggestion
If you would like to only return a single record per unique value in a certain field, you can use [`distinct`][]:
```

```ruby
Customer.select(:last_name).distinct
```

This would generate SQL like:

```sql
SELECT DISTINCT last_name FROM customers
```

You can also remove the uniqueness constraint:

```ruby
# Returns unique last_names
query = Customer.select(:last_name).distinct

# Returns all last_names, even if there are duplicates
query.distinct(false)
```

Grouping Records
----------------

> To apply a `GROUP BY` clause to the SQL fired by the finder, you can use the [`group`][] method.

Reviewer: `finder` isn't really used anymore in the code base. I think `relation` would do well here.
```suggestion
To apply a `GROUP BY` clause to the SQL fired by the relation, you can use the [`group`][] method.
```
Also this section begins with the use case of "applying some SQL" where the actual use case is "grouping records", Active Record just happens to use SQL under the hood to do it.
So maybe:

```suggestion
If you want to group records, you can use the [`group`][] method to apply a `GROUP BY` clause to the SQL fired by the relation.
```

For example:

> 

Reviewer 3: Would we expect backticks on line 1102:

### `HAVING` Conditions

?

Reviewer 3: If so, this would apply throughout the section 4 subheadings too

Author: Looking at the existing pattern in the guide, backticks are used for method names (e.g., `unscope`, `joins`, `includes`, `pluck`) but not for SQL keywords in descriptive subheadings.

So the current convention appears to be: backticks for method names, plain text for SQL keywords in descriptive phrases. If we want to add backticks to "HAVING Conditions", we should probably update the other SQL keyword subheadings for consistency, but I feel like this pattern works.

```ruby
Order.select("customer_id, sum(total) as total_price").
  group("customer_id").having("sum(total) > ?", 200)
```

The SQL that would be executed would be something like this:

```sql
SELECT customer_id, sum(total) as total_price
FROM orders
GROUP BY customer_id
HAVING sum(total) > 200
```

This returns the customer ID and total price for each customer, grouped by customer and where the sum of totals is more than $200.

You would access the `total_price` for each order object returned like this:

```ruby
big_orders = Order.select("customer_id, sum(total) as total_price")
                  .group("customer_id")
                  .having("sum(total) > ?", 200)

big_orders[0].total_price
# Returns the total price for the first Order object
```

Overriding Clauses
------------------

> ### `unscope`

Reviewer: I think it would be nice to add some context here for overriding scopes:
For example:

```suggestion

Sometimes you want reuse an existing scope but override part of it, for example if the `default_scope` is defined on the model.

### `unscope`
```

Author: Updated the into to read:

There are times when you want to build on an existing relation but change part of its query by removing conditions, replacing them, or redefining how records are selected or ordered. Active Record provides several methods that allow you to override individual clauses without rebuilding the entire relation from scratch.

> 

Reviewer 3: You can also unscope specific `where` clauses. For example, this will remove **the** `id` condition from the where clause:

```ruby
Book.where(id: 10, out_of_print: false).unscope(where: :id)
# SELECT books.* FROM books WHERE out_of_print = false
```

> A relation which has used `unscope` will affect any relation into which it is merged:

Reviewer: Maybe add some context here on what changes?
```suggestion
A relation which has used `unscope` will affect any relation into which it is merged. In the following example the `order` is removed from the original relation:
```

[`only`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/SpawnMethods.html#method-i-only

### `except`

You can remove specific conditions using the [`except`][] method. For example:

```ruby
Book.where("id > 100").limit(20).order("id desc").except(:order)
```

> The SQL that would be executed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SQL that would be executed ignores the `:order` clause:
```

The SQL that would be executed:

```sql
SELECT * FROM books WHERE out_of_print = false
```

> If the `rewhere` clause is not used, the where clauses are ANDed together:

Reviewer: It's a bit unclear what "not used" means in this context.
Maybe mention the regular `where`?
```suggestion
If a regular `where` is used instead of the `rewhere` clause is not used, the where clauses are ANDed together:
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Do you think we should define 'atomic updates' for beginners?

Locking is helpful for preventing race conditions when updating records in the database and ensuring atomic updates.

> ### Pessimistic Locking

Author: As per Carlos's and Petrik's suggestions, I agree that we can have a separate guide [Active Model Transactions & Locking](https://3.basecamp.com/3076981/buckets/35498807/todos/7082186922). However, I'd prefer to tackle this separately. Once we tackle the [Basecamp task](https://3.basecamp.com/3076981/buckets/35498807/todos/7082186922), I'll move the content from here and other places to this new guide.

  INNER JOIN reviews ON reviews.book_id = books.id
```

> Or, in English: "return all books that have an author _and_ at least one review". Note again that books with multiple reviews will show up multiple times.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Which equates to: "return all books that have an author _and_ at least one review". Note again that books with multiple reviews will show up multiple times.
```

Reviewer 3: If you agree with the above - we have similar on line 1545, 1577, 1596

`joins` method would generate one using the `INNER JOIN` function instead.

```sql

>   SELECT authors.id AS t0_r0, ... books.updated_at AS t1_r5 FROM authors LEFT OUTER JOIN books ON books.author_id = authors.id WHERE (books.out_of_print = true)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  SELECT authors.id AS t0_r0, ... books.updated_at AS t1_r5 FROM authors
    LEFT OUTER JOIN books ON books.author_id = authors.id
    WHERE (books.out_of_print = true)
```

```

> 

Reviewer 3: Line 1767 - we could change: 

Even though Active Record lets you specify conditions on the eager loaded associations just like `joins`, the recommended way is to use [joins](#joining-tables) instead.

To 

Even though Active Record also lets you specify conditions, the recommended way is to use [joins](#joining-tables) instead.

To make this a bit less roundabout!

Author: Updated to:

Even though Active Record allows you to specify conditions on eager-loaded associations, the recommended approach is to use [joins](#joining-tables) for this type of query.

=> #<ActiveRecord::Relation> # all out of print books by `author`
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Line 1828:

Revisiting the case where N + 1 was occurred using the `eager_load` method, we could rewrite `Book.limit(10)` to eager load authors:

'was occurred' doesn't seem right. Change to:

Revisiting the case where the N + 1 condition occurred using the `eager_load` method, we could rewrite `Book.limit(10)` to eager load authors:

Understanding Method Chaining
-----------------------------

> Active Record implements [Method Chaining](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_chaining),

Reviewer: A lot of Active Record methods return `self`, allowing method chaining. I'm not sure this can be called an implementation. Maybe just use "supports"?
```suggestion
Active Record supports [Method Chaining](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Method_chaining),
```

COMMIT
```

If the record already exists (due to a uniqueness constraint), the creation will fail and the method will find the existing record:

```sql
BEGIN
INSERT INTO customers (created_at, first_name, locked, orders_count, updated_at) VALUES ('2011-08-30 05:22:57', 'Andy', 1, NULL, '2011-08-30 05:22:57')
ROLLBACK
SELECT * FROM customers WHERE (customers.first_name = 'Andy') LIMIT 1
```

The key difference between `create_or_find_by` and `find_or_create_by` is the order of operations and atomicity:
- `find_or_create_by`: First tries to find, then creates if not found. This is **not atomic** and can have race conditions where duplicate records may be created.
- `create_or_find_by`: First tries to create, then finds if creation fails due to uniqueness constraint violation. This is **atomic** and prevents race conditions.

IMPORTANT: For `create_or_find_by` to work correctly, you **must** have a unique constraint on the attribute(s) you're querying. Without a unique constraint, the method will fail on duplicate key violations. This method is best suited when:
- You expect to create the record most of the time
- You have a unique constraint on the attribute(s) being queried

> - You want to avoid race conditions that could create duplicate records

Reviewer 3: It doesn't look like the bullet points render nicely inside an `IMPORTANT` block:

<img width="845" height="160" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0ce0383c-1f8b-4e45-b94d-d917e7268406" />

Probably worth just writing these out instead!
